# Governance

NFTs added a principle that was designed to give the player the ability to vote on changes in the development. The developers launched Governance NFTs within the game sector in 2020. Players can use their NFTs as a voice now, which gives players the right to vote on future developments and gameplay elements. Every NFT owned by the player counts as one vote on the developmental aspects in the game sector. The more NFTs collected and owned allows for more voting rights.

## Structure

Wire Nodes T1, T2, & T3 will be available to purchase in USD, BTC, ETH, or Stable Coin via a private sale. Wire Node purchasers will be rewarded in $WIRE token = to the amount of USD they used to purchase the Wire node with a $WIRE token price = to $0.10.

There are three different tiers of Wire nodes that will be available for purchase. 10 of the 21 appointed T1 nodes being the most scarce will cost $750k per node. 76 of the 80 appointed T2 nodes will be available to purchase for $91.88k per node. 1,000 appointed T3 nodes will be available to purchase for $10k per node. 
The current model involves the $WIRE allocation for Wire Nodes for 3 different tiers: 

    - T1 Wire Nodes would each stake 7.5m $WIRE to be rewarded back over 1 year and each holds an equal share of 4% of existing inventory.

    - T2 Wire Nodes would each stake 91.88k $WIRE to be rewarded back over 2 years and each hold an equal share of 0.15% of existing inventory.

    - T3 Wire Nodes would stake 100K $WIRE and each hold an equal share of 0.00045% of existing inventory.

## General Assembly Tier 1 

- Appointed Artificial Governance Seats T1
- Primaries
- 21 Seats

## Interface Tier 2

- Councilor Seats
- 80 Seats

## Social Governance 

    - Proprietors Citizenship Tier 3
        - 450 - 1450 Seats
    - Citizenship Tier 4
        - Gen 1 Seats minted until Network expansion 
        - Accounts purchase names giving them full control of their keys
    - Vagrants Tier 5
        -Temporary accounts until upgrading to Tier 4

## Directives

Wire provides community-operated cloud infrastructure for deploying and running decentralized applications.  It combines the features of a decentralized database with others of a serverless compute platform. The token which allows this platform to run also enables applications built on top of it to interact with each other in new ways.  Together, these features allow developers to create censorship-resistant back-ends for applications that deal with high-stakes data like money, identity, and assets and open-state components which interact seamlessly with each other.
These application back-ends and components are called “smart contracts,” though we will often refer to these all as simply “applications” here.

The infrastructure which makes up this cloud is created from a potentially infinite number of “nodes” run by individuals and organizations around the world who offer portions of their CPU and hard drive space — whether on their laptops or, more likely, professionally deployed servers. Developers write smart contracts and deploy them to this cloud as if they were deploying to a single server, which is a process that feels very similar to how applications are deployed to existing centralized clouds. 

Once the developer has deployed an application, called a “smart contract”, and marked it unchangeable (“immutable”), the application will now run for as long as at least a handful of members of the Wire community continue to exist.  When end users interact with that deployed application, they will generally do so through a familiar web or mobile interface just like any one of a million apps today.

In a centralized cloud hosted by Amazon or Google, developers pay for their applications each month based on how much usage they require, for example, based on the number of requests generated by users visiting their webpages.  The Wire platform similarly requires that either users or developers provide compensation for their usage to the community operators of this infrastructure. Like today’s cloud infrastructure, Wire prices usage is based on easy-to-understand metrics that aren’t heavily influenced by factors like system congestion. Such factors make it very complicated for developers on alternative blockchain-based systems today.

## Proposed Instruction Sets

The complete set of all the instructions in machine code that can be recognized and executed by a central processing unit. Instruction set architecture (ISA) is the basic set of operations a computer or device must support. A functional definition of operations with precise descriptions of how to invoke and access them. On your device, each instruction is represented by a sequence of bits. The instruction is divided into fields, corresponding to the constituent elements of the instruction. During instruction execution, an instruction is read into an instruction
register (IR) in the CPU. The CPU must be able to extract the data from the various
instruction fields to perform the required operation.

## WIPs

Wire Improvement Proposals (WIPs) describe standards for the AirWire platform. This may include core protocol specifications, client application programming interface, as well as contract standards. WIPs consist of a designed document providing updated information to the community or can describe a new feature within the AirWire environment. Wire Improvement Proposals consist of technical specifications and a rationale for the feature. A consensus is built within the community along with documentation of opinions within the ecosystem. Improvement proposals are the main mechanism for documenting decisions, providing a collection of input from the community, and proposing new features.